Libtorch cuda graphs (#2441)
pytorch/tutorials: advanced_source/cpp_cuda_graphs.rst

Using CUDA Graphs in PyTorch C++ API
====================================

NVIDIA’s CUDA Graphs have been a part of CUDA Toolkit library since the
release of `version 10 <https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/cuda-graphs/>`_.
They are capable of greatly reducing the CPU overhead increasing the
performance of applications.

> In this tutorial we will be focusing on using CUDA Graphs for `C++

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we will be focusing on using CUDA Graphs for `C++
```

frontend of PyTorch <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/advanced/cpp_frontend.html>`_.
The C++ frontend is mostly utilized in production and deployment applications which
are important parts of PyTorch use cases. Since `the first appearance
<https://pytorch.org/blog/accelerating-pytorch-with-cuda-graphs/>`_
the CUDA Graphs won users’ and developer’s hearts for being a very performant
and at the same time simple-to-use tool. In fact, CUDA Graphs are used by default
in ``torch.compile`` of PyTorch 2.0 to boost the productivity of training and inference.

We would like to demonstrate CUDA Graphs usage on PyTorch’s `MNIST
example <https://github.com/pytorch/examples/tree/main/cpp/mnist>`_.
The usage of CUDA Graphs in LibTorch (C++ Frontend) is very similar to its
`Python counterpart <https://pytorch.org/docs/main/notes/cuda.html#cuda-graphs>`_
but with some differences in syntax and functionality.

> 

Reviewer: Also add a note: View and edit this tutorial in github. Like this: https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/ddp_tutorial.html

> Without further ado, let us get started!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Getting Started
----------------
```

The main training loop consists of the several steps and depicted in the
following code chunk:

.. code-block:: cpp

  for (auto& batch : data_loader) {
    auto data = batch.data.to(device);
    auto targets = batch.target.to(device);
    optimizer.zero_grad();
    auto output = model.forward(data);
    auto loss = torch::nll_loss(output, targets);
    loss.backward();
    optimizer.step();
  }

> Which are basically a forward pass, backward pass and weight updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example above includes a forward pass, a backward pass, and weight updates.
```

> In this tutorial we will be applying CUDA Graph on all the compute steps via whole-network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we will be applying CUDA Graph on all the compute steps through the whole-network
```

graph capture. But before doing so, we need to slightly modify the source code. What we need

> to do is preallocate tensors for reusing them in the main training loop like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to do is preallocate tensors for reusing them in the main training loop. Here is an example implementation:
```

.. code-block:: cpp

  torch::TensorOptions FloatCUDA =
      torch::TensorOptions(device).dtype(torch::kFloat);
  torch::TensorOptions LongCUDA =
      torch::TensorOptions(device).dtype(torch::kLong);

  torch::Tensor data = torch::zeros({kTrainBatchSize, 1, 28, 28}, FloatCUDA);
  torch::Tensor targets = torch::zeros({kTrainBatchSize}, LongCUDA);
  torch::Tensor output = torch::zeros({1}, FloatCUDA);
  torch::Tensor loss = torch::zeros({1}, FloatCUDA);

  for (auto& batch : data_loader) {
    data.copy_(batch.data);
    targets.copy_(batch.target);
    training_step(model, optimizer, data, targets, output, loss);
  }

Where ``training_step`` simply consists of forward and backward passes with corresponding optimizer calls:

.. code-block:: cpp

  void training_step(
      Net& model,
      torch::optim::Optimizer& optimizer,
      torch::Tensor& data,
      torch::Tensor& targets,
      torch::Tensor& output,
      torch::Tensor& loss) {
    optimizer.zero_grad();
    output = model.forward(data);
    loss = torch::nll_loss(output, targets);
    loss.backward();
    optimizer.step();
  }

> PyTorch’s CUDA Graphs API is relying on Stream Capture which in our case would used as following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PyTorch’s CUDA Graphs API is relying on Stream Capture which in our case would be used like this:
```

.. code-block:: cpp

  at::cuda::CUDAGraph graph;
  at::cuda::CUDAStream captureStream = at::cuda::getStreamFromPool();
  at::cuda::setCurrentCUDAStream(captureStream);

  graph.capture_begin();
  training_step(model, optimizer, data, targets, output, loss);
  graph.capture_end();

> Before actual graph capture it is important to run several warm-up iterations on side stream to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the actual graph capture, it is important to run several warm-up iterations on side stream to
```

prepare CUDA cache as well as CUDA libraries (like CUBLAS and CUDNN) that will be used during
the training:

.. code-block:: cpp

  at::cuda::CUDAStream warmupStream = at::cuda::getStreamFromPool();
  at::cuda::setCurrentCUDAStream(warmupStream);
  for (int iter = 0; iter < num_warmup_iters; iter++) {
    training_step(model, optimizer, data, targets, output, loss);
  }

> After successful graph capture we can replace ``training_step(model, optimizer, data, targets, output, loss);``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the successful graph capture, we can replace ``training_step(model, optimizer, data, targets, output, loss);``
```

> call via ``graph.replay();`` do the training step.

Reviewer: should it be "to do the training step"?

> The full source code is available in GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We say that above

> 

Reviewer: I feel like this can be a separate section. Maybe "Comparing  Training Results" or something like that?

  real    0m44.287s
  user    0m44.018s
  sys    0m1.116s

While the training with the CUDA Graph produces the following output:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ time ./mnist --use-train-graph
  Train Epoch: 1 [59584/60000] Loss: 0.4092
  Test set: Average loss: 0.2037 | Accuracy: 0.938
  Train Epoch: 2 [59584/60000] Loss: 0.2039
  Test set: Average loss: 0.1274 | Accuracy: 0.961
  Train Epoch: 3 [59584/60000] Loss: 0.1779
  Test set: Average loss: 0.1017 | Accuracy: 0.968
  Train Epoch: 4 [59584/60000] Loss: 0.1559
  Test set: Average loss: 0.0871 | Accuracy: 0.972
  Train Epoch: 5 [59584/60000] Loss: 0.2240
  Test set: Average loss: 0.0735 | Accuracy: 0.977
  Train Epoch: 6 [59584/60000] Loss: 0.0520
  Test set: Average loss: 0.0710 | Accuracy: 0.978
  Train Epoch: 7 [59584/60000] Loss: 0.0935
  Test set: Average loss: 0.0666 | Accuracy: 0.979
  Train Epoch: 8 [59584/60000] Loss: 0.0744
  Test set: Average loss: 0.0603 | Accuracy: 0.981
  Train Epoch: 9 [59584/60000] Loss: 0.0762
  Test set: Average loss: 0.0547 | Accuracy: 0.983
  Train Epoch: 10 [59584/60000] Loss: 0.0207
  Test set: Average loss: 0.0525 | Accuracy: 0.983

  real    0m6.952s
  user    0m7.048s
  sys    0m0.619s

> 

Reviewer: This should be go under the "Conclusion" section.

As we can see, just by applying a CUDA Graph on the `MNIST example
<https://github.com/pytorch/examples/tree/main/cpp/mnist>`_ we were able to gain the performance

> by more than 6 times for training. This kind of large perf improvement was achievable due to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by more than six times for training. This kind of large performance improvement was achievable due to the
```

> small model size. In case of larger models with heavy GPU usage the CPU overhead is less impactful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
small model size. In case of larger models with heavy GPU usage, the CPU overhead is less impactful
```

Using CUDA Graphs in PyTorch C++ API
====================================

> .. note::
>    |edit| View and edit this tutorial in `GitHub <https://github.com/pytorch/tutorials/blob/main/advanced_source/cpp_cuda_graphs.rst>`__.
> 
> .. note::
>    The full source code is available on `GitHub <https://github.com/pytorch/tutorials/blob/main/advanced_source/cpp_cuda_graphs>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   |edit| View and edit this tutorial in `GitHub <https://github.com/pytorch/tutorials/blob/main/advanced_source/cpp_cuda_graphs.rst>`__. The full source code is available on `GitHub <https://github.com/pytorch/tutorials/blob/main/advanced_source/cpp_cuda_graphs>`__.
```
Let's just make it one note

Prerequisites:

-  `Using the PyTorch C++ Frontend <../advanced_source/cpp_frontend.html>`__
-  `CUDA semantics <https://pytorch.org/docs/master/notes/cuda.html>`__

> -  `Pytorch 2.0 or later`
> -  `CUDA 11 or later`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Pytorch 2.0 or later
-  CUDA 11 or later
```
